---
layout:     post
title:      流利阅读笔记1
subtitle:   流利阅读笔记整理，单词，原文，笔记
date:       2019-05-13
author:     wenmeiyu
header-img: img/post-bg-ios9-web.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - 流利阅读
    - 学习笔记
---
# 前言

>流利阅读学习笔记7-14

---
# 7.May.13

Many Chinese **suffer discrimination** based on their **regional origin**
- suffer 遭受
	- suffer from 遭受
	- suffer hungry/suffer from hungry  挨饿
	- suffer discrimination 遭受歧视
	- discrimination n.歧视，区别
- regional origin 所属地域
	- regional  地域的，地区的
	- region  地区，地域
	- origin 起源，来源

Urban Chinese are often contemptuous of internal migrants, wherever they are from. But people from certain regions suffer higher than usual levels of negative stereotyping. Regional discrimination “is hard to see and touch” yet its impact is as painful as getting “a bloodied face”, said an academic quoted by a north-eastern newspaper.
- Urban Chinese 城里人
	- urban 城市的

People from Henan and the north-eastern provinces of Heilongjiang, Jilin and Liaoning are among those most commonly targeted, partly because those areas are such big sources of migrants. Henan is a farming province of about 100m people. The latest census, in 2010, showed that 7.5% of Henanese were living outside their home province, the second-highest proportion of any province. The highest was Anhui, on Henan’s eastern border.

Egregious examples of regional stereotyping occasionally cause outcry. In 2017, an internet conglomerate known for its food-delivery app admitted to excluding applicants from certain regions for an open position. The company later apologised. After the incident, many locals and some sympathisers elsewhere vowed to show their displeasure by deleting the mobile app of the firm.

Some lawyers say a legal loophole is partly to blame. China’s employment law prohibits discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, sex, religion, disability, social background and health. Regional origin, however, is not mentioned. Some legal scholars and legislators have called for a wider law that would prohibit all kinds of unfair discrimination, including the region-based sort.

# 8.May.14
Cheating men can be spotted by their face type, study suggests

Philandering men have unfaithfulness written all over their faces, according to research that suggests men and women are able to spot cheating chaps just by looking at them.

Experts found men with more “masculine” faces were more likely to be thought to be unfaithful, and such men also self-reported more cheating or “poaching” of other men’s partners.

The team said being suspicious of men with masculine features — such as a strong browridge, strong jaw and thinner lips — might have offered an evolutionary advantage, allowing heterosexual women to spot a flaky partner and men to recognise a potential rival who might seduce their partner or leave them raising someone else’s child.

Writing in the journal Royal Society Open Science, researchers described how they asked heterosexual white participants to judge the facial features of 189 white adults who had been photographed and taken part in previous research.

The results showed men and women as a whole gave higher scores of unfaithfulness to the images of men who had self-reported more cheating or poaching.

When the team examined what about the men’s faces might have offered clues to their unfaithfulness, they found the standout feature was how masculine the face appeared.

Dr Kristen Knowles, an evolutionary psychologist from Queen Margaret University in Edinburgh, who was not involved in the study, said it was interesting the research made a clear connection between perceptions of infidelity and actual infidelity.

But Knowles stressed it should not be assumed that men with masculine faces were likely to be unfaithful. “We should be aware that these behaviours are incredibly complex, and are likely to be influenced by many factors, including social and cultural effects, personality, genetics and life experiences, ” she said.



