---
layout:     post
title:      流利阅读笔记
subtitle:   流利阅读笔记整理，单词，原文，笔记
date:       2019-05-09
author:     wenmeiyu
header-img: img/post-bg-ios9-web.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - 流利阅读
    - 学习笔记
---
# 前言

>流利阅读学习笔记1-6

---
# 1.May.07

Why are **airlines** so **keen on** the **fantasy** of the Mile-High Barbie?
- airline n.航空公司；航线  adj.航线的
- keen adj.着迷的 n.痛哭，挽歌
	- very interested 对某事着迷的
	- keen on sth. 对某事着迷
- fantasy n.幻想

How did it come to this—women required to **produce a sick note** because they’ve been **struck** down by… unsexiness? It seems that Norwegian Air requires female flight attendants to wear heels, or have a note from the doctor—other rules cover everything from makeup to false eyelashes.
- produce a sick note 出示病假条
	- produce 拿出，出示
	- show/offer sth.
	- produce a passport and a driving licence
- struck v.突然袭击 strike的原型 
	- be struck down 
	- I was struck down by flu 我因流感病倒了

How mortifying for Norway: in 2018, the country was rated second for equality, after Iceland, in the Global Gender Gap report. Norwegian politician Anette Trettebergstuen said: “1950 rang, and it wants its rulebook back.” Norwegian Air responded that flat shoes are worn in the cabin, there are also dress guidelines for male stewards, and other airlines have similar rules—but it must be aware that last month, Virgin ditched requirements for heels and makeup, with others following suit.

It seems that we’re finally starting to see off the oversexualised “air hostess” cliche, but how has it taken so long? Air travel isn’t alone when it comes to chauvinistic grooming diktats. Officially or unofficially, illegally or otherwise, women have routinely been pressured to dress quasi-sexually for work.

It’s a kind of chauvinistic laziness—an easy (and gratuitous) way to keep sex in the mix. Never mind that the flight attendants may have preferred comfort, elegance and dignity to styling that came perilously close over the years to Mile-High Barbie. On and off ground, airline staff have a big job to do—safeguarding the wellbeing and security of passengers. As with all work environments, if men aren’t required to totter about in heels, why on earth are women? 


---
# 2.May.08

What happens to our data when we die? Elaine Kasket on a digital **dilemma**
- sb. on sth 某人就某事发表看法
	- the mayor on environmental protection 市长就环保议题就讲话
	- Elaine Kasket on a digital dilemma  Elaine就数字困境发表了看法
- dilema n.困境，窘境
	- the dilema of adolescence 青春期困境
	- digital dilema 数字困境

Elaine Kasket is a **counselling** psychologist **based in** London. Her first book, All the Ghosts in the Machine: **Illusions** of **Immortality** in the Digital Age, **examines the ethical and technical issues** surrounding our data when we die.
At some point there will be more dead Facebook accounts than live ones.
- counselling n.咨询，辅导，特指专业性很强的或心理上的辅导
	-counselling psychologist  心理咨询师，心理咨询专家
- based in 强调工作的地方
	- based in London 在伦敦的
	- a programmer based in Shenzhen 在深圳工作的程序员
- illusion n.幻觉，错误的观念，幻想，幻想的事物，错觉
	- illusions of immortality 永生不朽的幻觉 
- immortality n.不朽，永生
	- mortality n.死亡，死亡率
	- mortal adj.可朽的，n.凡人
	- All man are mortal 人固有一死
- examines the ethical and technical issues
	- examine v.检索，检查，细查，审问
	- ethical adj. 伦理的；道德的；凭处方出售的 n. 处方药
	- technical adj. 工艺的，科技的；技术上的；专门的
	- issue n. 问题；流出；期号；发行物 vt. 发行，发布；发给；放出，排出


The Oxford Internet Institute recently predicted there could be 2bn dead Facebook accounts by the end of the century.
That’s a lot of data…

Although we’re doubling what we can store every couple of years, it’s not, like infinite — and our devices capture more and more stuff by default. That surplus data, either with the aid of artificial intelligence or human decision making will be jettisoned, and big tech will be making those decisions.

Meanwhile, people have to act like hackers to gain access to their relatives’ accounts…

They are forced to break the law. They are impersonating people, using other people’s passwords… I’m not sure if I’m happy to leave someone a set of my passwords; they might find things that were important, but they would have access to everything else. Even if one isn’t harbouring toxic secrets, that’s still quite a thing.

What’s the bare minimum you’d advise people to do?

It’s a good idea to clean your digital house frequently. If nothing else, you don’t want relatives buried under a hundredweight of undifferentiated data with no sense of what is important to you. The default is to become a digital extreme hoarder, with data up to the rafters. The things which are really important to you, the artefacts you want to pass on to future generations, put them in a physical form. You cannot trust corporations to safeguard your data.

---
# 3.May.09

Starbucks' China **challenger** Luckin to **raise up to** $800 million in U.S. **IPO**: **sources**
- challenger  n.挑战者 
	- challenge   v.挑战
- IPO  initial public offering 首次公开发行，上市
- sources 消息
- raise  募集
- up to  高达...

Luckin Coffee **Inc**, the Chinese challenger to Starbucks **Corp**, **filed** on Monday for a U.S. initial public offering (IPO) through which, sources said, it **is looking to** raise up to $800 million
- Inc incorporated 股份优有限的
- Corp corporation 大公司
- file v.提出申请 n.文件
	- file for sth. 
	- file for divorce 提出离婚申请
- be looking to do sth. 试图找到做某事的方法
	- to try to find ways of doing sth.
	
The **Beijing-based** coffee **chain** set a **placeholder** amount of $100 million to **indicate** the size of the IPO and did not **disclose** the number of shares it would offer, a **filing** with **the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission** showed.
- Beijing-based 总部在北京的
- chain 连锁
	- coffee chain 咖啡连锁店
	- Markov chain 马尔科夫链
- placeholder  占位符
	- placeholder amount 留位费
	- place 位置
	- hold 保持
- indicate vt.表明，指出，暗示
- disclose v.透露，揭露
- filing n.存档记录
	- file v.归档
	- a bankruptcy filing 一份破产档案
- the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 美国交易证券委员会
	- securities 证券
	- commission 委员会
	- a commission on environmental pollution 一个调查环境污染的委员会

Luckin has waged its cash-burning caffeine war with generous subsidies, speedy delivery and viral promotions on social media, which in turn has also pushed Starbucks to form a tie-up with local tech giant Alibaba to deliver coffee to customers.

According to the prospectus, its acquisition cost per new customer decreased to 16.9 yuan ($2.52) in the first quarter of 2019 from 103.5 yuan in the year-ago quarter, helped by the growth of its network and improved brand recognition.

“The big question for the brand long term is if, when it rolls back discounts, enough customers stick around, ” said Ben Cavender, Shanghai-based principal at China Market Research Group, “But the company has completely rewritten the rules for the coffee business in China and has impacted Starbucks as well as a host of smaller players.”

---
# 4.May.10

Chinese family **reportedly** paid $6.5 million for **spot** at Stanford.
- reportedly  adv.据说
	- report v. 报道
- paid/pay A for B   为B事情支付了A价格
- spot n.地点，位置，学位名额

From the day in March that **prosecutors announced charges against** 50 people in a **sweeping college admissions fraud investigation**, they have **held out** a **tantalizing mystery**: an unnamed family that they said had paid the **college consultant** at the center of the **scheme** $6.5 million — far more than any of the parents named in the case — to get their child into college.
- prosecutors n.公诉人，检察官
	- prosecute v.起诉，检举
	- The thief will be prosecuted 小偷将会被起诉
- announced  宣布
	- announce v.宣布
- charges against 对...指控
	- charges v.指控，充电 n.费用，手续费
- sweeping adj.影响广泛的
	- sweep v.打扫，迅速蔓延
- college admissions fraud 大学招生丑闻
	- college  n.大学
	- admission  n.承认，录用
	- fraud  n.欺骗，诈骗
	- credit card fraud 信用卡诈骗
- investigation n.调查
- held out 隐瞒，不公开
- tantalizing mystery 诱人的谜
	- tantalizing  吸引人的，撩人的
	- tantalize   撩拨，逗弄
- college consultant 大学顾问，教育中介
- scheme n.阴谋，诡计，计划
	- a pension scheme 养老金计划

The student is Yusi Zhao, who **was admitted to** Stanford in 2017, according to a person with **direct knowledge** of the investigation.
- be admitted to  被录取
- direct knowledge 一手消息

At a **court hearing** in March, the **lead prosecutor** in the admissions case, Eric S. Rosen, said that college consultant William Singer had **tried to get** Zhao — whom Rosen did not **identify** by name — **recruited to the Stanford sailing team** and created a false **profile** of her supposed sailing achievements.


She was ultimately not recruited, but Rosen said that she was admitted to Stanford partly on the basis of those false credentials and that, after her admission, Singer made a $500, 000 donation to the Stanford sailing program.

Zhao appears to have participated in a recent conference hosted by the Princeton U.S.-China Coalition. Her biography on the group’s website said she was planning to major in Psychology and East Asian Studies and was interested in education policy in China.
